NoSQL means Not Only SQL, which uses other languages as well along with SQL.

Types of NoSQL :
1. Key Value [X] -Famous implementation of Key-value is redis.
2. Document Database [X] -mongoDB
3. Tabular [X] -Cassandra, Open Source and distributed database in which anyone can contribute and was built by Facebook and is mainly used by the same.
4. Graph - Coming Soon! -neo4j

In the following NoSQL Guide, the implementation is done on a open source cloud service DataStax Astra which is implemented on Open Source Apache Cassandra.

Why NoSQL is needed?
NoSQL databases store data in a single data format, including a JSON document, rather than the traditional table structure of a relational database. Because this non-relational database architecture doesn't really need a structure, it can quickly handle massive, often unorganized data sets.

Difference between Cassandra and RDBMS :-

Since, both the databases uses table like format to store data, but the key differences in both of them is :-

Cassandra has no Foreign Key constraint, i.e., we cannot link two tables together.
Cassandra has no Joins.
In Cassandra, there occurs no error when we trying to update an id which is not already present. Infact, it will create a new row with the given values and a unique id and the not provided values will be set to null by default.
Also, when we try to insert a row with the same id which is already been used(if the id is the primary key), SQL will throw an error, but in CQL, no error will be thrown and it will either work not as an insert query but an upsert query. It will update the row that already contains the same id.

In Cassandra, in place of varchar or char, text datatype is used in the case of strings.

Integer can have following types :-
int - 32 bits
bigint - 64 bits
smallint - 16 bits
tinyint - 8 bits

Floating type numbers can have following types :-
float - 32 bits
double - 64 bits

Timestamp can be used to store both date and time. But in case, you only want to enter date, use date and if you want to enter time, use time. 

toTimeStamp(now()) is used to get the current date and time.
uuid() generates a unique id for each row.
Various other datatypes like list, set, map(dictionary[key-value pairs]) can also be used in the CQL. Along with thie, there must be provided a datatype in which the value need to be stored. For say, list<text>, this will contain a list of type text(character).

When there are more than one column making up a primary key, that key is also known as the composite key or compound key along with the primary key. The very first column of the composite key is known as the partition key and the others are known as the clustering keys.
Clustering keys are used to store the data in order or in the sorted order. Whereas the partition key is used for the partition purposes, o.e., partitioning in segments so that a single server need not to store the full values.

REST API is used to store the JSON data in the Cassandra database.
